Known Issues 00.2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
The MartJ query interfaces are still incomplete and a number of filters and attributes may either not work (in
particular in MartExplorer) or be missing. The interfaces can also produce redundant data under certain
queries scenario in particular for marts where conformed dimension model is used (ensembl, MSD). 

NB. Please note that the web interface to the BioMart system - MartView is in a full production mode and guarantees correct
    data. 

                This system has been developed and tested predominantly in Linux, tru64, and Windows 2000.

                The MartJ system is currently limited in the number of datasets that can be loaded at the same time in a
                MartExplorer/MartShell session. Future releases will manage resources better to ensure that datasets are loaded and
                managed efficiently. 

                Currently, query chaining is limited in the number of ids that can be processed in a chain. The very large id chains
                (300,000) are likely to cause out of memory errors. This will be addressed in future releases. 

                The 'genomic sequence' retrieval from ensembl is rather inefficient. 

                Running concurrent MartExplorer sessions is likely to result in the registry file lock. 

                The history/command completion system relies on JNI interaction with the GNU Readline (*NIX), or GetLine
                (Windows) c libraries. For this reason, shared object files must be compiled for each platform that the system is to
                be run on, and placed in the LD_LIBRARY_PATH (or windows/apple equivalent). Without this, MartShell works fine,
                but without command completion or history (although Windows users with doskey will get crude history
                functionality). 

                The list and describe commands can be used to replace the completion system. Currently, only linux and tru64 are
                supported in the distribution. Users wishing to make an immediate contribution to the project could obtain the
                Java-Readline source from sourceforge.net and follow the instructions to compile on their favorite unsupported
                platforms. Once the test works, the resulting .so file can be sent to us along with an example bin/martshell.sh or
                bin/martshell.bat file that makes MartShell completion and history work.

                Contributors would be duly cited in the ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS of future distributions. Although pre-compiled
                libraries for Apple OSX have been supplied, the user will need to ensure that GNU Readline is installed on their
                system in the system-wide /sw directory (the contributing user had success using fink at fink.sourceforge.net to
                install GNU Readline). 

                MartEditor does not yet cover a full range of filter and attribute edition options and the important 'naive view'
                functionality is completely missing from this release

